# Website Hosting

There are various options available for hosting a website, including shared hosting, dedicated
hosting, and cloud hosting, each with its own set of benefits and drawbacks.
There are various tools available for managing and making a website, depending on the hosting option chosen.


## cPanel

cPanel is a web-based hosting control panel that provides a graphical user interface (GUI) and automation tools designed
to simplify the process of hosting a website. It is commonly used by web hosting companies to provide clients with an
easy way to manage their websites, email accounts, and other hosting-related tasks.

One of the main benefits of cPanel is its user-friendly interface, which allows even those with little technical
experience to easily navigate and perform a variety of tasks. With cPanel, users can create and manage email accounts,
install applications, such as WordPress and Joomla, and view website statistics. cPanel also includes a file manager,
which allows users to easily upload and manage their website's files.

Another feature of cPanel is its ability to manage multiple websites from a single account. This is particularly useful
for web developers or agencies that manage multiple websites for clients. cPanel also offers security features, such as
SSL certificate management and password protection for directories, to help protect websites from potential threats.

Overall, cPanel is a powerful and user-friendly tool that makes it easy for individuals and businesses to manage their
websites and hosting-related tasks. It is widely used by web hosting companies and is often included with hosting
packages as a standard feature.

!!! tip

    [Contabo's webspace packages](https://contabo.com/en/web-hosting/) includes cPanel with a website builder tool that
    allows users to easily create and design a website without coding skills. The website builder can be accessed 
    through cPanel and provides a range of templates and customization options. This feature makes it easy for users to 
    create and manage a professional-looking website.

## GitHub Pages (free)

GitHub Pages is a free service offered by GitHub that allows users to easily create and host a website directly from a
GitHub repository. It is designed for developers to host their project pages, documentation, and demos, but it can also
be used by anyone to create a personal website or blog.

To use GitHub Pages, users simply create a new repository with a special name and push their website files to it. GitHub
will then automatically build and publish the website, making it available online. Users can customize their websites
using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and can also use Jekyll, a static site generator, to create more complex websites.

GitHub Pages offers a simple and convenient way for users to create and host a website, and is particularly useful for
developers who want to showcase their work and projects. It is also a good option for those who want to create a
personal website or blog, as it is easy to use and requires no upfront costs.

!!! info

    This very page hosted on github pages and has been made using [mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) as you can see at 
    the bottom of this page

## Wordpress (freeish)

WordPress is a content management system (CMS) that allows users to easily create and manage a website or blog. It is
the most popular CMS in the world, powering over 40% of all websites on the internet.

One of the main advantages of WordPress is its user-friendly interface and intuitive content creation tools, which allow
even those with little technical experience to create a professional-looking website. WordPress also has a large
community of developers who have created a wide range of themes and plugins, which allow users to easily customize the
appearance and functionality of their website.

In addition to its content management capabilities, WordPress also offers a number of features for managing and
promoting a website, including search engine optimization (SEO) tools, social media integration, and email marketing
integration.


## Related Links
* [DNS](./../Networking/DNS-Records.md)


